good evening i'm judy woodruff
on the news hour tonight terror
strikes Paris
multiple co-ordinated bombings
and shootings killed scores at
least one
hundred are dead at a concert
hall that was held hostage and
French President
along declares a state of
emergency clause Kurdish forces
backed by us-
airstrikes declare a victory
over Isis is a take back the
town of cinder in
Iraq then dissecting strong
language from Donald prompt
anticipating
tomorrow's democratic debate in
more mark shields and Michael
Gerson analyze
the week's news and
investigative journalism
translated to the big screen
we look at the new movie
spotlight there's something
about the blue-collar
approach to this work boots on
the ground journalism that's
more or less a
dying art and why it's important
to know why it's fascinating all
that and more
on tonight's PBS Newshour
bloodbath engulf parish tonight
as terror attacks exploded
across the
French capital the deputy mayor
said at least one hundred and
eighteen people
were killed
other officials said a hundred
and forty died along with five
attackers and some
reports range even higher
there was no immediate claim of
responsibility the wave of
chilling
shattered Friday night in paris
as police and military race to
stop an
all-out assault on the city of
at least six sites were hit from
a concert hall
to a shopping mall to a
restaurant plus a soccer stadium
the concert hall saw
the worst carnage where at least
100 people died after gunmen
seized hostages
the police assault there killed
at least two of the attackers
bomb blast near the
soccer stadium reverberate
inside where thousands of things
gathered France Germany I heard
one bed and then ten to fifteen
minutes later
another bang bang two in one go
then I heard another one outside
inside French president Francois
Hollande was
at the stadium as well but was
quickly evacuated moments later
he addressed the
nation declaring a state of
emergency and shutting the
nation's borders the
dole was a sudden applying must
ensure that no one can return to
carry out such
as and at the same time that
those who have carried out these
crimes are also
apprehended before trying to
leave the country in Washington
President Obama
came to the White House briefing
room as the attacks were still
ongoing
once again we've seen an
outrageous attempt to terrorize
innocent civilians
this is an attack not just on
Paris it's time I just on the
people of France but
this is an attack on all of
humanity of the universal values
that we share we
stand prepared and ready to
provide whatever assistance that
the government
and the people of France need to
respond back in Paris
investigators began trying
to figure out who was behind the
worst attack on the city since
world war two
and how they carried it out here
in the USA officials said there
is no credible
threat of an attack but security
has been stepped up at locations
in New York
Boston and Washington Dec for
more on the attacks we turn to
reporter Kate
moody of France 24 television
she is in Paris Kate moody tell
us the latest you
have at this hour is still on
the battle plans theater where
this dramatic
hostage situation has just come
to an end about two hours ago we
understand
that police and forensic
investigators are going in there
and uncovering a
really bloody bloody scene we've
been seeing covered bodies
coming out of that
theater injured people being
taken to hospital for treatment
and Kate we know that there were
is it five or six other sites
where there were
attacks of a different nature
yeah there wasn't justice
hostage situation going
on although that seems to emerge
as the most high-profile
incident the evening
the bloody evening began as she
will add around 9 p.m. local
time with a series
of explosions were heard outside
the study hard stadium where
their soccer
match between France and Germany
was taking place we understand
that five
people were killed outside of
that stadium including the
potentially choose
suicide attacker that that's
what's being reported that has
not been
confirmed by the police
these explosions were heard
inside the stadium but no one
really realize what
it was in the game went ahead as
normal and separately a few
minutes later there
was there was a series of
gunshots and people who were
killed outside a
Cambodian restaurant in the 11th
arrondissement of Paris really
buzzing
sort of hit neighborhood where a
lot of people were out on the
terraces then
this incident took place at the
theater where an American ben
was actually
getting a rock show hundreds and
hundreds of people inside that
sold out
show an optimization and then
developed there there were also
reports at least
four other reports of gunfire in
the city throughout the evening
it's not
clear whether those were in fact
related to the series of attacks
although the I
think we can say fairly safely
the series at the at the
restaurant the
theater and then the stadium do
seem to have been related in
some way that the
impression that authorities
didn't understand that in total
five attackers
were involved and have been
neutralized that's worth of the
french prosecutors
using the other opened up
investigations try and find out
you know who these
people are who they may have
been connected with the years
we've not been
given to the all clear signs of
Paris the because they have the
knees other
potentially related incidents
with don't know the people who
were involved in
those out there have been taken
into custody have been
neutralized use their
word
to the city still very much on
edge evening kate is there any
clue at all as
to the identity of any of these
attackers there's not we've
heard from
some people who were inside the
Buckland theater who said that
they heard the
attackers mentioning Syria
someone said they heard her
cries of Allahu Akbar
but that does just individuals
that we've heard from there's no
sense for
officials yet that that could be
any kind of any kind of a
motivation
prosecutors have been very very
careful not to make any and not
pointing fingers
if you will yet because we're
really still in the very early
stages of this
investigation as I said we're
not even sure that would that
that everything has
been company has been been calm
down for the evening is still
very very much on
actual a lot of questions bill
just beginning to be raised a
lot of
questions for sure and and given
what happened in Paris just
months ago with
the Charlie Hebdo attack the
French newspaper where a number
of people were
killed we know security was
stepped up in Paris but clearly
not enough to stop
something as horrific as this
you know exactly was feeling
fairly fairly
impressive presence of military
personnel and police just much
more
visible on the streets of Paris
in the months since that Charlie
at their
shooting and and you know posted
outside outside news officers
outside churches
and synagogues and temples we
feel we've seen all that for
months
a lot of people perish sort of
thought after while maybe
they're trying a
little too far with that maybe
we could dial it down obviously
those questions
resurfacing this evening the
other question of course is
going to be the
issue of counterintelligence
counterterrorism really how how
investigators go about stopping
these kinds of things before
they happen
without the threat of
the threat of policemen on the
streets how how how can the
intelligence
community find people who might
become perpetrators in the
future
French government has tried to
go some way to expanding its own
powers trying
to track down those people I
think that it will certainly be
much much more
moody we thank you and we are
going to continue to follow this
Paris story
throughout the program tonight
in other news Islamic state
forces sustained
major losses across the
territory they control in Iraq
and Syria they were
driven from the northern Iraqi
town of soon after having held
it for more than
a year and there were growing
signs that one of the most
notorious of the
militants was killed in Syria
chief foreign affairs
correspondent margaret
Warner has that story
it was cold but surprisingly
quiet as the Sun rose over
Sinjar and Kurdish
pesh MERGA fighters waited to
advance within hours the calm
was broken
pushed their way into the city
centre firing guns in
celebration raising their
flag and unfurling a banner to
signify their victory Michael
Gordon of the New
York Times entered since you are
with them and their hours are
you can go if I
stayed over the preceding we
heard that allowed them to take
the heat but
securing the city will take work
or risk getting in shower and
that's probably
take some time to clear
the Serie A girls and I G
that the major part of the
battle Pierce 311 Kurdish
fighters had also taken a
vital highway linking Islamic
state territory in Iraq and
Syria the militant
suffered a second blow to a
neighboring Syria as a coalition
of Arab Christian
and Kurdish rebels took the town
of hall and Northern Cape
Province separately
rush defense ministry announced
an Iraqi military operation in
western Iraq to
liberate Ramadi from Islamic
state control but local police
and officials
said progress was very slow in
Baghdad a suicide bombing at a
Shiite funeral
killing more than two dozen
people and wounding many more
targeted the Islamic
state executioner known as
jihadi John Steve over to you
us-led military spokesman Steve
Warren speaking from baghdad
said the strike
hit a car in the Syrian city
that Isis calls its capital
perfected weapon
system hit its intended target
and of course you know who were
on the
receiving end of that weapons
systems or killed we sought to
finalize the
verification at those personnel
were jihadi john was in fact a
British
citizen named Mohammed and
she appeared in videos depicting
the beheading of western
hostages they
included American journalist
James Foley and Stephen Sundlof
as well as USAID's
worker Abdul Rahman Qazi to
British aid workers and a
Japanese journalist were
beheaded as well
Adam Goldman has covered that
story extensively for the
washington post
technically I don't think jockey
John meant much to the
organization itself he
wasn't a battlefield general but
he helped great symbolism for
that group
and I think his demise is a blow
to the organization he was a
great recruitment
tool and he also seemed
untouchable but the you s just
Isis know that we can
reach any of you later the
Pentagon said it is reasonably
certain that she had a
john was indeed killed in the
strike in Tunisia Secretary of
State John Kerry
said the turn of events shows
that the Islamic states days are
numbered in this
country abortion policy is going
back before the you s Supreme
Court for the
first time since 2007 the nine
justices agreed today to
consider a Texas law
that could force most of that
state's abortion facilities to
shut down the
case turns on whether the law
places an undue burden on a
woman's constitutional
right to seek an abortion in
utah judge today reversed his
decision to take a
nine-month-old girl away from a
lesbian couple after sparking a
backlash on
Tuesday the judge ruled against
foster parents April hoagland
and Becky peers
he said same-sex marriages are
quote more unstable today the
couple's lawyers
said they are relieved in are
very optimistic quote that the
child will
remain in their care
still state officials said the
judge's latest ruling could be
temporary
back in the middle east this was
another deadly day in a
two-month surge of
violence between palestinians
and israelis israeli officials
said at least
two jewish settlers were killed
when a palestinian opened fire
on their van
van near Hebron in the West Bank
police launched a manhunt for
the shooter
elsewhere at least two
Palestinians were shot and
killed by Israeli security
forces in separate clashes near
hebron and ramala the National
Election
Commission in myanmar has
confirmed the opposition parties
historic win in
parliamentary elections the
National League for Democracy
led by Aung San su
chi captured a majority of seats
in Sunday's voting supporters
celebrated
today by buying up campaign
buttons and stickers as mementos
in the party's
spokesman welcomed the formal
announcement according to our
tally we
already knew that we won but is
the Election Commission lists
are official
we had to wait for it
Commission announced he'll be
expected will be able to work
freely and I'm so
happy about that
under Myanmar's Constitution
suit is barred from becoming
president but she
has said whoever holds that
office will be a figurehead
while she will wield
actual power back in this
country the state of Alabama has
agreed to change
its voter registration system
after a finding of quote
widespread non
compliance with federal law
us' Justice Department says the
state failed to let people
register to vote
when they get driver's licenses
or similar documents the two
giants in
daily fantasy sports draft kings
and fan dual went to court today
to keep their
gaming websites operating in New
York State State's Attorney
General had
ordered both companies to shut
down after ruling they're
engaged in illegal
gambling but in lawsuits today
the firm's argued they are
running skills
based games the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention
now estimates
that one in 45 american children
has autism that figure in a new
report today
is significantly higher than the
previous estimate of one in 68
researchers say a change in the
wording of survey questions
could be a factor
the cause or causes of
autism are still on
known and on Wall Street stocks
slumped again over growing
concerns that the
holiday shopping season will be
disappointing the Dow Jones
Industrial
Average lost more than 200
points to close at seventeen
thousand 245 the
Nasdaq fell 77 points and the
S&P 500 dropped 23 for the week
both the Dow and
the S&P 500 lost roughly three
and a half percent the nasdaq
fell more than
4% still to come on the news
hour more on the attacks that
have rocked Paris
how everyday acts of racism can
bill to a tipping point and more
now a look at what questions
authorities are asking in paris
tonight we turn to
Lorenzo buddy know he is the
director of the program on
extremism at george
washington university
here in washington D C
welcome to the program lorenzo's
so somebody who studies
terrorism what do
you make of what we're hearing
out of Paris we're seeing it
seemed quite well
coordinated that over the last
couple of years we've seen a lot
of attacks which
were carried out by lone actors
will be small groups of people
that quite
unsophisticated he seems very
different with multiple
locations automatic
weapons probably suicide belts
and suicide actions all at the
same time
very high number of casualties
and he seems quite sophisticated
likely of
course we don't know a lot of
things at this point but like
the the action of a
group of a pretty sophisticated
network what do you make we
heard Kate moody the
reporter a minute ago say that
one witness heard one of the
attackers use
the word say syria and there may
have been someone who heard an
attacker say
all who are are what we are
these just little bits of
information we have to be
very cautious of course what
what people here in situations
like that in the
middle of the pack they could it
be because I misheard the
obviously bizarre
potential indications of what is
the most likely suspicious group
so that the
al-qaida rice has inspired form
of terrorism they talking about
Syria if
they say that god is great the
lower part in Arabic they will
be indication
that individuals inspired by
technology in a way to be linked
or not
groups again premature to say
that is obviously the most
likely scenario but
it's one of these two groups are
anyways what ideology but let's
remember but a
few years ago when both attacks
in Norway took place we all
thought he was
islamic inspire terrorism and it
was not again the most likely
scenario is bad
but I think it would be silly
for everybody to to assume
that's what it is
and i think what the French
investigators said in its notice
telling
me to make about the suction
from the beginning is there
anything we can make
of the methodology the fact that
they did simultaneous attacks at
one time
that they went into a concert
hall and apparently just picked
people off one by
one by one very soft targets
it says the mayor of Paris I
think we're seeing these are the
places where people
go on a Friday night to have
fun restaurant to soccer game
the concert that had been
brutally extremely brutally
killed people one by
one so obviously this is two to
make a statement pieces not to
kill brutally
again it's the methodology
reducing with vice related
groups and we just reading
the news wires that the
Department of Homeland Security
is saying once again
they still have no reason no
credible threat that the that
there there's an
attack being directed it at the
you s so my question is why
France why Paris what
makes that the target tonight
difficult to see again because
we don't know all the facts and
who's behind this
if it is indeed a nice is
inspired al-qaida-inspired
attack and friends has
a very very large number of
individuals who have gone to
Syria we're talking
about more than 1,000 people
they went from friends to fight
with Isis in Syria
a few hundred of both have come
back we ever even larger number
of sympathizers
in France over there are a lot
of networks lot of a jihadist
activities
beer and I thought these are
overwhelmed now this is a
problem it is common to
most Western countries including
the United States but the size
the magnitude
of the problem in trends is so
much bigger than in the USA and
most other
European countries and again
it's early but does this
represent possibly some
kind of turning point in that it
was believed before there were
gonna be
these kind of attacks but they
were going to step up security
and they
really stepped up security but
there was security and yet they
were able to pull
this off it's almost impossible
to stop this kind of this kind
of a tax and and
keep in mind a bit on a monthly
basis authorities in most
Western countries
including the United States for
it to Texas so for everyone but
does take
place we have seen dozens of
attacks over the last couple of
months have been
thwarted but you can't stop
everything in in in a free
society you cannot
secure every restaurant
every concert venue
every you every football game
and if we have thousands of
people but are
inspired by a sort of radiology
and ready to commit an act of
violence one
cannot just a little
capabilities and resources one
cannot monitor all these
people 24 7 so it's impossible
to secure a country in every
single soft target in
it
well many many questions raised
by what's happened by what's led
to this
horrific series of events
Lorenzo video from George
Washington University we thank
you thank you
we bring you another
conversation and R Series race
matters solutions during a
week when racial tensions on
campus have led to protests and
high-profile
resignations special
correspondent charlene hunter
goal sat down with
Columbia University Teachers
College professor darold sooo to
learn more
about the small slight that some
say are more insidious than the
overt racial
tensions that could be seen and
observed by all here's that
conversation with
this is sooo thank you for
joining us so tell me just what
exactly is Mike
regression
micro aggressions are varying
from being conscious deliberate
on a continuum to
being outside once the level of
awareness and unintentional
micro
aggressions really are
reflections of worldviews of
inclusion exclusion
superiority or inferiority and
they come out ways that are
outside the level of
conscious awareness of an
individual when I'm asked where
were you born and I
say I was born in Portland Ore
ego and they persist by $10 know
where you are
and I'll SE Portland Oregon and
those who know what country were
you born out
and I'll see the United States
get very embarrassed now this is
an example that
they are intending to make a
personal connection but the
human communication
the true world view is that I am
a perpetual alien or foreigner
in my
country I am NOT a true American
because true Americans only
looked the following
way and that's what generates
these micro aggressions but you
describe it is
unintentional and yet we've seen
at the University of Missouri
very blatant
examples of racism
right about that micro
aggressions very being conscious
deliberate intention of
from old-fashioned racism and
bias tape but to the
unintentional consequences in
our studies to indicate that
it's the unintentional forms of
buyers that are
most damaging to people of color
and that like at the University
of Missouri
would you have people being
caused racial epithets or
behaviors that are
going on actually is only the
tip of the iceberg reason why I
believe students of
color faculty of color are
reacting and such a way that
they are experiencing a
climate that is hostile that is
full of micro aggressions on
campus are
triggering off this discontent
pain and feeling of being
silenced their critics
of your studies and the notion
even of Michael aggression which
they stay have
more from 1917 with it was
unintentional to now everything
that happens and that
people are just being overly
sensitive they think if you got
all these students
on campus how does that prepare
them to live in the real world
you know the
problem is that people believe
micro aggressions are very
similar to the
everyday and root us that
individuals white americans
experience in their
day-to-day lives they are quite
different micro aggressions for
people
of color are constant continual
and cumulative they occurred to
people of
color from the moment of birth
to when they die and as a result
any one
microgram isolation may
represent the feather that
breaks the camel's back and
people who don't see
see the lived experience of
people of color and the daily
onslaught that they
experienced tend not to believe
that has some major you know
there's another
criticism because this is Ben
called some of the things that
people call now
they say that inward and things
like that is hate speech and
that it's
protected by the First
Amendment so in that ok
given that kind of reasoning
that people who say that we are
preventing
individuals from free speech
don't realize how ironically the
people of
color that historically have not
been able to express themselves
openly and
freely without punitive actions
being directed at and so there
has to be this
balanced but at the same time
and understanding that there are
limits to
free speech when it harms hurts
people why do you think that
students commit
micro aggressions or
adults for that matter
general that's a good question
and I think it goes to the heart
of the matter
that none of us are immune from
inheriting the racial bias ease
of our
forbearers we have attitudes and
policies that are delivered
through
micro aggressions but when some
of these micro aggressions come
out in the form
of real hatred is that solvable
we can deal with that
deliberately but the
subtle forms of micro
aggressions are hard to prove
hard to quantify in some
way and very difficult for us to
take actions against because
people
oftentimes don't proceed as
harmful significant you know
people oftentimes
tell me that white americans are
the enemy not white americans
are the enemy
white supremacy
social conditioning
of the superiority of one group
over another and many white
Americans are
equally victimized because they
have been socialized into a
society that
tends to view them with these
jurors that they believe it but
it's no fault
of their own if you really rich
white americans they can become
valuable
allies one of the reasons why
are some research concentrates
on the
unintentional forums microbe
russians is very much what Maya
Angelou said it's
the unintentional by our staff
does the greatest harm to people
of color and I
often times you see example that
you know when you look at the
disparities
and then we have in education
employment and health care is
not due to the over
racist white supremacist due to
the well intentioned teachers
who educate our
children
employers who decide who to hire
who to retain and who to promote
that those
individuals who are unaware of
their hidden bias sees that are
having a major
impact on our standard of living
and you can find more about
micro aggressions
including a video made by
professor sue explaining how
they have impacted his
life on the race matters section
of our website that's pbs.org /
news ever
coming up on the news this week
and an on screen portrayal of
the investigation
that uncovered the Catholic
child abuse scandal but first
this week we have seen
shift in the 2016 race for
president in both parties we
start with the left
political director Lisa
Desjardin reports on the next
phase for Bernie
Sanders the summer Sanders was a
wave of big crowd setting 2016
turnout records
for both parties so far
24,000 people and Boston 27,000
in LA and 28,000 important organ
for him to
standard campaign
but his headline now center on a
different set of numbers the
polling
let's take a look at Iowa in
September Sanders was on the
rise but he had ups
and downs since then
meantime Hillary Clinton is
pulling ahead now by more than
20 points
according to poll averages there
and in New Hampshire right next
door to
standard home state of Vermont
he had a ten point lead in
September now he and
clinton are virtually tied as
Sanders numbers shift no
accident so does his
strategy it's true we've entered
a different phase of the
campaign that's
tad devine the strategist behind
Bernie Sanders campaign he says
the campaign
now needs to get beyond the big
crowd energy got to balance it
with the need
particularly states to be
accessible to talk directly to
voters in to deliver
his message to people who we can
persuade one way to do that
traditional and money on TV this
month Sanders launched his first
TV ad
campaign two million dollars on
this sixty second spot including
a
biographical touch that is not
in his stump speech the son of a
Polish
immigrant
in a brooklyn tenement
he went the added area and Iowa
and New Hampshire and it came
three months after
clinton launched her first TV
spots there and speaking of
clinton sanders is
doing more of that two months he
was the No attacks candidate
this campaign that
I am running let me reiterate is
not against Hillary Clinton or
anybody else
even avoided taking a shot in
their October debate and that is
now he's
getting more aggressive and more
critical differences between
Hillary
Clinton and myself
charms disagree with Hillary
Clinton on many many issues as
his campaign tries
to find the right formula some
political observers point out
Sanders has two
goals
the white house and his agenda
Brown is a professor at George
Washington
University the real win for
Sanders isn't that he personally
win it said his
ideas become more accepted and
more kind of diffused across the
Democratic Party
he really wants voters to
appreciate who he is what he
believes and why it is
important for them
Sanders has two and a half
months before the Iowa caucuses
when voters go away
if his strategy is working for
the PBS Newshour I'm Lisa
Desjardins meanwhile
Republican donald Trump made
news last night for a ninety
five minute long
speech in Fort Dodge Iowa that
was full of attacks including
apparently on
voters here are a few excerpts
starting with Trump's words
about rival ben
Carson carson's claimed that he
once tried to stab someone when
he was 14
years old but hit
the person's belt
I really i no more than two
generals do believe me I would
bomb the Quran she's
gonna be the candidate and she's
gonna lose how stupid are the
people of Iowa
how stupid are the people of the
country to believe this from
that we turn now to
shields in gerson whom I spoke
with earlier tonight syndicated
columnist
Mark shields and Washington Post
columnist Michael Gerson David
Brooks is
away so gentlemen this is a fast
moving stories still very much
we know
president alone has closed the
borders of france has called it
an emergency and
markets a reminder
that even though
foreign policy defense policy
has not been front and center I
think of the
minds of most Americans
something can change in an
instant
question judy and that ministers
since a shock but increasing
awareness of
vulnerability and I think that's
what the reaction and
understandable reaction
is a most people beyond
the obvious sympathy
and said so outrageous that
people have done it and sympathy
for those who are
suffering but does the suburban
mobility and it's clear at this
point it would be
the President Obama
administration officials have
said Michael there's no
indication of an immediate
threat to the United States but
of course that's
that's where you're thinking
goes well this is one of the
strategies of
al-qaida like organization
spectacular attacks designed to
demoralise countries
this was true with us' to
Britain in 2005 with the
underground attack and
it's true in France now but it
doesn't work you know we've
actually hardens
resolve and France is playing an
important role in the Middle
East I i
think that they're not gonna be
deterred from that we will
continue to monitor it
but it is it's disturbing at the
very least horrific as the scale
of it unfold
so let's turn back to the
campaign mark we just heard a
little bit of what
Donald Trump had to say and that
really surprising speech that he
made last
night in iowa what are we to
make of this he went after Ben
Carson he went
after many of the other
candidate you some very very
tough language I don't
know what to make of it
48 hours he went from the
Milwaukee debate where he was
subdued repetitive
uninteresting donald Trump that
all the manhood generated such
great numbers for
these debates to ask reid in
Fort Dodge Iowa which he rated
salvaged if you
would
Dr Carr said yes but candidate
george pataki Lindsey Graham
Marco Rubio Jeb
Bush john Kasich everybody
basically accepted crews who was
spared but for
the first time in a sense that
he wasn't talking about just
perceived
shortcomings whether it was low
energy sweat glands of a
candidate and people
could kinda giggle
mischievous giggle I think he
made his people and comfortable
in that room
especially going after Ben
Carson him is the best liked and
the most part based
on the reactions of people
people there and the reports
that I have made it talk
talking to people who were there
I do think that there was an
uncomfortable
about it and I don't know which
donald Trump is going to be
whether it's the
Milwaukee donald Trump which US
presidential quotes that he
didn't go
after anybody ever more elegant
the question is well the good
thing to this
person who really sad
basically accused ben Carson it
being a psychopath excuse me
what do you make of
it
well there are a lot of problems
with our presidential nomination
process but
it does overtime candidates
reveals them under pressure and
this was I think that
people have a democratic duty to
watch what what what took place
in those nine
five minutes as much as you can
stomach was vile and vulgar and
vicious and
deformed this was a unbelievable
performance and I think
conservatives
are just have to have a tough
time defending this if this
isn't the line
there's no lie
this was really the worst type
of politics and you will see
what the
effect is he jumped the shark so
many times and avoid the
consequences but
this really struck me as
something different is it is it
is it worth even
speculating about why is it just
just no way to know why he would
do that
attended in Carson the fact that
ben carson had inserted into our
leading in
the polls
I think ben Carson is ahead in
iowa and register poll which is
sort of the goals
is is the gold standard and I i
think that is that's part of
Donald Trump's
introduction of himself every
time I'm leaving all the polls
and I don't know
if he's bothered by that just
what it is that trumps biggest
strategic failure in
this speech he actually attacked
carson's religious conversion
said this
isn't the way things happen that
is a central tenet of
evangelical beliefs the
possibility of redemption and
conversion I want was blind but
now IC by attacking
that in a very religious state
iowa I can't imagine what reason
there could be
this was this was a really just
illiteracy it also really showed
a
hostility towards the
evangelical tradition that that
I can't explain that
at all
well let's turn to we just heard
that that really good report
from lisa days
you're down and political
director about Bernie Sanders
and there seems to be
mark is trying a different tack
year he wants he is it that he
doesn't feel his
message is getting across what
what is what do you think is
behind his problem
has always been the same Hillary
Clinton while she said
polarizing figure
nationally and has a ceiling as
pollsters say how high should go
is
enormously popular Democratic
primary voters and she has a big
national lead
birdies and his best bet I i
think is always been a two-state
strategy it's
it's necessity be the mother of
invention here they need to
compete we
can compete with the resources
would be up some parity and Iowa
and New
Hampshire where he can happen
have a chance and to make the
case judy
basically
not against her but a case of
who believe the trust who do you
think the
1% most most against who stood
up on the war in Iraq who stood
up against wall
street when they were reminding
us really against the trade
pacts that have
cost americans jobs I think that
that is probably his best
strategy and to make
it a case of you know he's not
been a candidate of convenience
these indicate
a conviction
it's also a reflection that a
couple in the last couple of
weeks
hillary Clinton has essentially
sewn up the Democratic
nomination when Joe Biden
didn't get in what she did very
well in her in the hearings guy
like she did
very well in the debates where
poll numbers stabilized and
began to go up i
mean she's in a commanding
position right now this is a
reaction to that I
don't think that they are
accountants campaign is afraid
of Sanders I think
it's afraid of James Comey FBI
director because that's where
the real threat
comes from that looks like the
expanding investigation over the
possibility of of
you know him during an
investigation and that I think
it's the real source of
concern I just had one thing to
do and that is if in fact bernie
sanders for
the win iowa and new hampshire
that changes the dynamic of the
race the
inevitability Hillary Clinton or
anybody who just has taken a
beating are looking
in the first two contests the
dynamic changes in that sense of
inevitability
it's frayed it's not a rodent
and that's where he's really
focus right now
well i want to i want to ask you
both about the really what I
think it one of
the things that emerged from
that debate that you talked
about Michael Republican
debate this weekend that is on
immigration you saw a clear
split
between those Republicans who
were arguing like Donald Trump
do everything
you can to keep to get
those who were here undocumented
immigrants out of the country
and those
in the party who were saying
wait a minute that's doesn't
make sense yeah I
think clearly for republicans in
order to have a chance going
forward not just
this election but future
elections because the nature
demographics you know
the candidate comes out of this
is going to have to repudiate
the idea of mass
deportations like it they're
gonna have to positively
distance themselves from
this and win so it's someone
like jab or someone like Ruby
our someone like john
Kasich that can play that role
the question is whether the the
forces of really nativism within
the party can
defeat them can make it
impossible for a viable
Republican to get the nomination
and that's the main issue we're
going to see his marker you are
we now seeing the
situation where if you're a
moderate Republican and you say
just enough to to
appeal to Hispanic voters that
maybe republicans have a shot
but have a
chance on the immigration issue
that we didn't see this to me is
suicidal on the
part of republicans and we have
an increasingly minority America
the
Republican primary electorate
judy is six percent minority at
92% the general
election of the country in 2012
is 72% might be down 71 maybe
seventy and 26
percent minority that's
what do you know
African American Asian and
others and i just i just think
that they're playing
to an older whiter more
conservative electorate
Republican candidates are and I
will say this if immigration
that is opposition
to immigration categorical
just outspoken
traveled opposition to
immigration of of sorts becomes
the litmus test of who
wins the republicans will lose
and I i would just disappear
Michaelis I think
Marco Rubio really faces a test
he's trying to have a keep
traveling east and
I think he was burned in that
process I had the best night
when he made the
economic populist targeting
those with lawyers and bankers
and journalists
coming across the Rio Grande
they'd be a concern that got to
have a job taken
mark shields' Michael
Gerson we thank you both
thank you
finally tonight one of the
year's most acclaimed movies and
journalism behind
it
reporters frequently don't come
off well in the movies these
days but the new
film opening in many cities this
weekend is built around the
investigative
journalism that uncovered a
major scandal in the archdiocese
Catholic
Archdiocese of Boston the
fallout of that report in turn
triggered numerous
other investigations and
revelations and other
archdioceses jeffrey Brown has
the
story
the numbers clearly indicate
that their senior involved it
was one major
institution the hometown
newspaper taking on another the
Catholic Church we
need to focus on the institution
the individual priests practice
and policy
show me this was systemic
it came from the top
the Boston Globe's investigation
revealed that the church knew
about
sexual abuse of children by
priests and covered it up even
allowing guilty
priests to keep their jobs
a recording this in any way
shape or form of nothing that's
the story of the
story
director Tom McCarthy we became
fascinated with my new show with
the
procedure with the craft of
journalism and I think early on
we committed to not
only writing but betraying that
is accurately as possible and I
think we
felt and the rest of my creative
team felt that if we found it
exciting
hopefully our audience what the
NewsHour was there in Boston in
the spring of
2002 covering the case as it
unfolded efforts were led by
then editor Martin
Baron is new to the city and the
paper he had a column by a glow
brighter about
one case of abuse that was under
court seal an extraordinary
story here was a
priest who had been accused by a
hundred and thirty people of
having abused them
as minors that was just an
extraordinary number in and of
itself and i was just
struck by the fact that I hadn't
heard of this case I said we'll
be considered
challenging that confidentiality
order I'd like to challenge the
protective
order and they gave in case you
want to see the Catholic Church
which is filing
a motion but yes in the film
played by actor Liev Schreiber
do today Martin
Baron is editor of the
washington post he talked at
length to the filmmakers
about his experience in Boston
and told us have seen the
results I think this
movie is quite authentic think
they they got the basics right
they really
understood the subject matter
they understood how newsrooms
work and I
think that's one thing that
impressed a lot of journalists
is that they get the
life of journalists
so right gets
it's incredible we're not used
to seeing that in movies their
cover of stories on
Saturday priests rabbis and
confirmation from either side
are you out of your
mind that includes michael
keaton Mark Ruffalo and Rachel
McAdams closely
follows the globe's
investigative spotlight team
slowly unwinds the story
including the actions of a
priest named gahagan implicated
in many abuse cases
and his ultimate superior
cardinal bernard law then the
very prominent
leader of the Catholic Church in
Boston the spotlight reporters
called 18 years
of church directories to track
over 900 active and retired
priests the key man
created a database which allowed
to match at Target least a
hundred priests
with allegations of abuse they
honed in on priests who had been
moved from a
parish sent on sick leave or
otherwise remove from active
service and left
quote on a side
in 2002 the NewsHour talk to
walter robinson who headed up
the spotlight
unit for documents to
me were breathtaking
the extent to which they knew
the cordiality the
correspondence between
the Cardinals and other gahagan
and the other bishops and father
is a fellow who
they knew was accused of and had
committed these acts against
scores of
kids in the letters with your
jack we hope you're coping with
your problem
connect your thoughts McCarthy
says he and his team took great
care in how they
would tell us not to
sensationalize the story with
the town to approach the
report we had the great good
fortune of sitting down with
several survivors
abuse namely to depicted in the
film Joe Crowley and Phil
Saviano
these men in the courage they
exemplify talking with us in
dealing with this
every day of our lives of their
lives and becoming advocates for
survivors
it's it's hard not to be
greatly impressed by it
the scandal began to snowball
even as the church vehemently
pushed back the
globe published its first story
on January 6 2002 with the
headline church
allowed abuse by priests for
years it also printed the phone
number of a
confidential Colin line bringing
in many new allegations from
victims take us so
long to see something that in
hindsight seems so obvious there
was a lot of talk
about this a lot of murmurs and
whisper something is going on
something as bad
in the process of the film is
drawn comparison to all the
President's Men
documented the Washington Post
pursuit of the Watergate scandal
forty years ago
that means also capturing the
changing world of newspapers at
a time of
cutbacks layoffs and closures
today bearing says this where a
profession
that's under tremendous pressure
a lot of financial pressure so
clearly it's
going to be more difficult given
that there are fewer resources
to do it this
is very expensive work to do and
yet we have to commit ourselves
to doing it
somebody needs to hold powerful
institutions and individuals
accountable
and we're the ones who have that
particular role in our society
global win a Pulitzer Prize for
its coverage of the church
sexual abuse
cases spotlight is receiving
early critical praise including
some from
higher reaches of the Catholic
Church for the PBS Newshour I'm
jeffrey Brown
before we go an update on the
attacks in Paris at this moment
we know
paris police now say they
believe all of the attackers who
carried out
coordinated assaults across the
city are now dead they struck at
least six sites
and officials say they killed
one hundred and forty people or
more
100 of the victims died when
attackers opened fire at a
concert halls and took
hostages they blew themselves up
when police stormed the place
french President alone responded
by declaring an emergency and
closing the
country's borders we will
continue our coverage of the
Paris attacks on line
you can find that at pbs.org /
newshour and later this evening
gwen Ifill also
looks at today's wave of
violence in Paris on washington
week will be back
right here on Monday that's the
news hour for tonight i'm judy
woodruff have
a great weekend thank
you and good night